- down - down - down - down - down - dad
in our modern world we put celebrities
on pedestals and we take great pleasure
in ripping them down it's Meghan -
Blaine is it Harry
have they been unfair to the Queen it
looks spoiled it looks hypocritical
the goldfish bowl of raw life is not for
everybody and it clearly wasn't for
Megan Markel she felt stifled in the
royal family and she was determined that
she was going to do it her way and my
goodness she has done Harry and Megan
will make an insane amount of money
together they are the most potent royal
couple in the world people welcome Terry
she was a star
it was the Markel Sparkle and all the
stuff family her father I'm really
disappointed I haven't seen my grandson
they want to say it's the media's fault
they want to say that it's Harry's
fractured relationship with his brother
then it became to feed the Duchess why
should even what was she pulling Harry
out did she force his hand pick your
villains pick your heroes
they're all there do you think they
walked away or were they pushed away
maybe they've just looked around at the
rest the royal family has thought that's
not what we want this hasn't led to a
happy ending
[Music]
tonight an ABC News special royal divide
Harry Megan and the crown with Deborah
Roberts the royal family continue to
deliver new storylines storylines that
we've not experienced before
once Megan and I were married we were
excited we were hopeful and we were here
to serve for those reasons it brings me
great sadness that it has come to this
this is a great great story the decision
that I have made for my wife and I to
step back is not one I made lightly
there was so many months of talks after
so many years of challenges hang on
Harry with you where are you going with
your great we cut they're all family
without you know don't do it Harry has
abdicated from his royal rule it was
everywhere it went around the world of
it the incident piece of Academy I mean
this is like something straight out of
the crown he reports you sir just a
family fighting two brothers butting
heads
maybe the in-law women don't get along
with each other if their grandmothers
getting frustrated dad doesn't know what
to do hello that goes on in every house
that's what makes this so good we have
chosen to make a transition this year in
starting to carve out the progressive
new role within this institution the
palace were in utter panic mode
you take Prince Harry out of the royal
family you're taking the jewel out of
of royal family this was a complete
shocker what is the mood there in London
right now that's all oh my god they've
quit we now plan to balance our time
between the United Kingdom and North
America and I know I haven't always done
it right but as far as this goes there
really was no other option it was kind
of dropping a nuclear bomb in the middle
of the Queen's lap and then all of a
sudden it was like war nobody in the
royal family knows this is like
dysfunctional beyond belief some of the
people that were there cheering them on
on the day of the wedding feel like this
was a step too far
they put it out on Instagram having just
returned from a six-week break in Canada
a couple that we knew weren't happy
realising having a glimpse of what life
could be like outside of the bubble in
London and saying you know what we're
gonna do this this is what we want to be
they've come across as rather precious
spoilt Millennials throwing the toys out
of the pram because it's not exactly
what she wanted all they wanted as a
couple Harry and Megan in the eyes of
the public said oh actually we just want
the good parts and we don't want to do
all of this sort of boring pomp and
pageantry of public doesn't what the
morning yachts in the South of France
welcome John because that's not what it
means to be royal here she probably has
this sort of fairytale view that we have
only to find then once she becomes
involved Harry it's not a fairy tale
they started to get a lot of criticism
about the way they were living their
lives were they just being naive
it's not all palaces and fast cars and
lots of money
it's the gilded cage in the end it's not
about you it's about anything you can do
to support the Queen who's the head of
state for Prince Harry to make the
decision to say I'm stepping back I
don't want to be a royal that is an
enormous slap in the face for the royal
family as an institution itself so Harry
was if you like summons to see the boss
of the family there was then a summit at
Sandringham it was a two hour meeting
with Harry the Queen Charles and William
Harry I heard was extremely nervous
before he went in there he hoped that
going in there he was going to see his
93 year old grandmother who has always
had a soft spot for him but there was a
strong chance that behind that door was
also a very angry monarch and there they
began to hash out what this new role for
Harry's gonna be who's gonna pay for
what what kind of security you're gonna
have where you're gonna live how many
times you're coming home what are your
titles gonna be all that sort of stuff
because they take money out of the
sovereign grant which is taxpayer money
used to pay for the royal family people
in this country feel they have an
ownership so there's the sense that they
should not be freeloading Royals and
then came the unprecedented statement
from the Queen although we would have
preferred them to remain full-time
working members of the royal family we
respect and understand their wish to
live a more independent life as a family
while remaining a valued part of my
family she repeated this word family
eight times in her statement so the tone
was more grandmotherly than a sovereign
we support you Harry we're disappointed
but we want what's best for you that is
unprecedented
it was her saying this is my family
we're sorting it out but essentially
that Harry and Megan have got what they
wanted
Harry and Megan got what they wanted but
at a price
our herd was to continue serving the
grain the Commonwealth and my military
associations but without a public
funding unfortunately that wasn't
possible
she loves Harry when it comes to the
decisions about the future of the crown
she's ruthless and that's the big thing
that people wanted to see like the Queen
came down with the hammer she's 93 years
old she has been known to be tough but
yet she sounded very grandmotherly but
you can be lovingly tough and in a very
short period of time a decision had been
made by the Queen tonight everyone
looking at the clues in the Queen's
worth taking away the HRH titles
removing public money we're no longer
working them to the royal family because
the Queen's are allowing it I've
accepted this knowing that it doesn't
change who I am or how committed I am
but I hope that helps you understand
what did it come to that I would step my
family back I think despite our surprise
that the way in which this news was
delivered the signs were there all along
we saw it when we were on the royal tour
with them around Australia Harry was not
his usual self he wasn't chatty
he wasn't calm and relaxed he was kind
of angry the documentary that Megan and
Harry did with ITV clearly showed two
people in a very fragile state Megan
said that this wasn't what she expected
it's not enough to just survive
something right that's not the point of
life you've got a thrive you've got to
feel happy it became clear now in
retrospect this is only gonna go on for
so long it's a very real thing to be
going through behind the scenes they
wanted privacy for their lives you know
the way they introduced art she was
different he wasn't given the title of
Prince Archie he was just baby Archie
that was a clue they'd reached a point
where they knew that they had to make
change quickly or it would have major
damage on their lives or even their
mental health royal watchers are losing
their minds apparently the backlash
against the Duke and Duchess of Sussex
decision has created enormous divisions
it's been very divisive they are human
but they they young keep having problems
they carry a same image over and over
daily is she the victim or is she the
villain is she the woman who stole the
people's print for me maybe Megan is the
woman that set Harry free Megan has if
you like given Harry the confidence and
the courage to take the biggest gamble
in his entire life next magazine and the
media
in this country have made Michael's life
a living hell
Megan is being flipped
[Music]
you
it seems almost a thousand years ago
from May of 2018 when Megan and Harry
got married it was this beautiful spring
day and their idyllic wedding was just
typical of the British some adoration
for them so magical and I'm a dude and I
was still caught up swept deep in what
happened that they they seemed
incredibly in love and maybe more
importantly the public seemed very much
in love with them when two billion
people watched them get married on
television people welcomed her in she
was a star
it was the Markel sparkle but almost
immediately after the doors closed on
the church the relationship between
Megan and particularly the British press
began to sour I just think she's a
slight social climber over friend Macon
spent more than a million quid just on
her clothes and Markel just can't seem
to hold on to employees they started
talking about her being demanding
spending too much money not caring about
her royal duties bossing Harry around
and over time Harry and Megan became
very sensitive to these stories we now
live in an era where one negative story
can become thousands of negative stories
within minutes
there's the expensive wedding there's
the American expensive baby shower and
there is the renovation of a place
called Frogmore cottage the Royals are
not celebrities they're public servants
are paid for by the British taxpayer but
then they took three million dollars of
public money to renovate from--or that
was controversial what was even worse
was then when they started to be
preaching about doing our bit to save
the planet it's a race against time the
one in which we are losing there was
Harry on one hand who was talking about
climate change no one can deny science
but then in the other he was going on
private jets to attend Google summits
and icily
I think the idea of being carbon
footprint Crusaders and then turning up
in your private jet that's shooting fish
in a barrel for the press don't do that
it's a dump
right so it's diva-ish behavior
basically that that the British press is
accusing them
and then when Archie was born it was
very strange that there was this kind of
secrecy around the birth people are
scratching their heads going what why
are you being so cloak-and-dagger the
princess of hugs is now saying Stefon
away from me like this is private this
is only about me finally that because
her wedding wasn't only about her there
was uproar in the British media about
them not doing the grand moment on the
steps of the Lindo wing like painted she
just had this baby she sit in the house
when she's like you want me to go out
there and do the dance for the press not
happening my brother how much of a big
deal is this ordinary people share the
photos of their kids - why won't you do
that right we covered your wedding now
show us the baby
it seemed ungrateful peri and Megan
change a tradition and they released a
photo with the Queen with Prince Philip
with Megan's mother Doria these key
moments have happened in their lives
been shared on Instagram instead we're
in this world now where the press is
being bypassed and they can't bear it so
they just need to be as sensational as
possible the criticism started oh she's
opening her own car doors you know she
doesn't understand well protocols she's
talking too much she's not talking
enough she was under and the most
unbelievable level of scrutiny my
British friend said to me
I'm sure he's great but you shouldn't do
it because the British tabloids will
destroy your life and all the stuff with
her family her father her sister Megan
Marcos family is a disaster it is that
simple there's no way to get around it
Thomas Marco sitting next to Piers
Morgan on British TV I'm a little
embarrassed for them and feeling very
sorry for the Queen once again he's
exposing things about his daughter and
there's a sense I think that she feels
that she's been hog done by that she
wasn't given a chance I never thought
that this would be easy but I thought it
would be fair for me I'm friends to my
wife and it was a little of course
there's a lot of stuff that hurts
I'm not be bullying truth and - and
declaring a dame that's
he thinks that the press killed his
mother that the sound of a shutter the
camera shutter reminds him of that
horrible tongue you know you really
can't blame him for feeling that way
however at the same time those clicks
are journalists who have been invited
it's a very different thing to the
photographer's who were physically
pursuing his mother throughout her life
I think he's terrified for Megan and
there was an element right at the bottom
of this when you boil it all down of a
loving husband trying to protect his
wife I spoke to Harry a few days ago he
has suffered alone from all of the
things that have happened to him he
suffers a lot from people judging him
there is balloons it's the idea that the
press have hounded Harry and Megan Diana
was literally chased into a tunnel and
died I don't think they've been any
worse than they were during the Diana
years Princess Diana was actually
physically hounded by the paparazzi they
had cameras in her face they were
chasing her down the street nothing like
that has happened to Harry and Megan
when you continue and constantly see and
hear in negativity you can be
overwhelming you can feel powerless and
lost you can feel different confused or
like you don't belong there's been a big
conversation about the coverage that
megan gets versus what kate gets but
kate in her day
she was hounded she was the most
photographed woman in the world for
quite a number of years when she was
just a girl friends the tabloids were
relentless but the differences with case
is that when she got married suddenly
she could do no wrong in the papers
backed off with Harry and Megan she
still painted out as the villain she is
still Duchess difficult and that's a
narrative that the tabloids absolutely
adore we've got perfect Kate trashing
Megan the list of complaints against
Megan is astounding she made avocados
for a friend who was visiting and he put
it on Instagram and then suddenly the
headlines were about how she is
contributing to like what climate change
and unfair labor practices and she's
tweeting end-of-the-world yeah but when
Prince William but Kate avocados husband
once again you see the difference in the
way the press treated those two women
you really need to look at some of the
coverage that has called Cannes a
fashion icon for wearing a strapless
dress but then called Megan vulgar just
a few weeks earlier it's a disgrace and
it's these sort of discrepancies that
have made it quite difficult to
understand what it is that the British
press have had in for Megan so yeah I
can understand why he's blaming the
media because the media are to blame do
you think race played a big part here we
saw it in the British press you know the
these tones these words being used as
exotic or Harry's new girlfriend
straight out of Compton when people say
that's not a racial undertone that's
just racist isn't it
let's be honest she was brought up
nowhere near Compton
she's from Los Angeles where it's a
private school in Hollywood all the
coverage of her is not as one of us but
of this strange exotic being she's not
the all white all wholesome girl that
caters he sees what his wife is going
through now this is all very very wrong
with him now Megan is being blamed blame
the black woman she's
from his father the reason that they
didn't want any press pictures of Archie
after he was born because they knew
perfectly well that all the press wanted
to know was what color was he the BBC
host had been gods and baldness suit
Suites a picture comparing Archie to a
chimpanzee if you'd listened to every
single excuse that was given up I hid a
minute
it was a joke it was racist and not one
member of the royal family said anything
to support or defend her I think both of
them felt very alone
towards the end of their time in the
firm when we come back Megan and the
Royal reality the royal family is not
kombucha at your door at four o'clock in
the morning it's stale sandwiches and
white bread that is what the royal
family is
you
how do you take a self-made woman in her
30s who personified the American dream
for Shiva met Prince Harry put her into
the situation of the royal family and
expect her to be able to breathe PDP
kind of woke avocados eating you know
Pilates and yoga smoothie we kind of
think that's weird all of that you know
she was a divorcee with a million
followers on Instagram and actress
didn't take a single box of princess in
Waiting material she wasn't just this
clone come to marry Prince Charming
if anybody knows about marrying into an
aristocracy as an American you do aren't
there rules is there a rule book when
you start to enter this world of
nobility an America we love the royal
family and we love the aristocracy so of
course we must know how it's done
table manners like six forks six knives
three spoons four glasses and bats what
Meghan has had to go into it but do you
have that sense of responsibility Prince
Harry for what you were all skiing Megan
to do that sense of responsibility was
it was essentially from day one but nice
to have some pretty you know frank
conversations with her to say that you
know what you're letting yourself in for
is it is it's a big it's a big deal
on the day she said I do she also took
on a job at the same time a job that she
had absolutely no say in how she gets to
do the whole reason that House of
Windsor has survived is that it's
essential that the spotlight is on the
monarch and the heir apparent and any
other member of the royal family who
tries to take too much oxygen away from
the Queen all the air has found
themselves getting into difficulties I
would argue that it looks like it's a
very hard place for a modern woman being
a part of this family and the platform
that comes with that is an incredible
responsibility that I take really
seriously I think the way Meghan tried
to work in the palace didn't fit in with
how other members of the royal family
worked
no aides who have one meeting a month
with their principals Harry and Meghan
were popping in and out of the office
almost every day for briefings and up
days I think they felt that she'd come
in and you know kind of be a sleepy
little royal but Meghan was like no I
need to know the people the places I'm
gonna talk to people I need to know
nationalities I need to know what
language is there been reports that she
comes to meetings with tons of questions
and binders that she does the work ahead
of time
she's aggressively emailing us stuff at
6:00 of the morning she could do
anything
now if every American I got in trouble
because they send emails too early in
the morning and like isn't that what
you're supposed to do women don't need
to find a voice they have a voice they
need to feel empowered to use it and
people need to be encouraged to listen
suddenly Meghan's charm that was her
hard work and her perseverance was being
turned into a problem for the royal
family I cannot believe it's 2020 and
we're still faulting women for being
ambitious to be relatively boring as to
be a very good full filler of the royal
rule honestly you know you want to leave
your glam and your drama to the
politicians the characters that do well
in the royal family are those stoic
characters who really live to serve who
put their head down Camila who supported
Charles amazingly
Kate who is now an absolutely wonderful
queen in waiting
she was incubated into being a princess
she's learned never say anything always
smile always have lovely hair yeah
you're done now I think we as a country
have to think well is that what we
really want from our royal women we want
them to be Stepford wise you know I mean
really there's a motto never complain
never explain and the royal family don't
like it when anybody rocks the boat that
was always Diana's problem
it was isolating but it was also a
situation where you couldn't indulge in
feeling sorry for yourself you had to
either sink or swim and you had to learn
that very fast and what did you do I
swam when the BBC Panorama interview
aired I mean that was a seismic moment
for the monarchy you could not believe
that here was one of the most prominent
members of the royal family spilling the
most intimate details of her life on
national television but you really
believed that it was out of jealousy
that they wanted to undermine you I
think it was out of fear because here
was a strong woman doing her bit
interesting driven passionate people
like Diana like Megan they find those
constraints very very hard
you're not allowed an opinion and in
this day and age of Twitter where
everyone has an opinion it's very hard
to just say oh you know what I'll bite
my tongue on every single little thing
and of course it's terrifying the
thought for the royal family that this
may repeat itself
if the Dutchess of Sussex decides to
give an interview probably to the
American press I hope to god Megan
breaks her silence and does
a Diana style interview I hope she does
she deserves it why not
she needs to be able to clap back all
those haters but Megan gave us a glimpse
into how she's feeling anyway when she
spoke to ITV about now famous phrase
that she said to Tom Bradby where she
said thank you for asking me how I am
and also thank you for asking
because not many people have asked if
I'm okay but it's it's a very real thing
to be going through behind the scenes
and the answer is would it be fair to
say no really
okay what did you hear when you heard
that statement what I thought of that
was she's a shell of herself she's not
that full of life you know optimistic
American that that we first saw on that
sofa when they were engaged and I think
she thought well why should I have to do
all of this in the public eye if no
one's going to listen to me and none of
the really good ideas I have are going
to be heard I think we feel that she had
this immense privilege and she's almost
sort of thrown it back in our faces
because it wasn't exactly what she
wanted or expected it to be they've
brought diversity into the royal family
they've brought an American into the
royal family a divorcee they've shown
that they could be modern and inclusive
and yet within two years you know make
them can't hack it there was going to be
this clash between a family wanting to
bend her into place and her wanting to
change them so yes maybe Megan hasn't
succeeded in totally revolutionising the
royal family but they haven't succeeded
in bending her into place next Harry a
reluctant Prince during that period of
frustration did you ever wish that you
weren't a prince I wish that quite a lot
Oh Steve
[Music]
you
what we've always known with Prince
Harry is that he is a reluctant royal
you can take the prince out of Harry but
you can't take the harry out of Harry I
want you to hear the truth from me as
much as I can share not as a prince
Torchic
but as Harry the same person that many
of you have watched grow up over the
last 35 years but now with a clearer
perspective now life is going to be very
different from yes the abdication of
royal rank is a huge step for a prince
and he has followed his heart God knows
he's followed his instincts my goodness
me it's going to be a challenge making
this work but that is Prince Harry he
doesn't want to be a royal he's being a
father this is a guy who is trying to
protect his cover and his lioness from
whatever it takes he has become a an
incredible man a man that he's mine
would be proud of I think it's really
important to remember that the British
public have kind of adored Harry and he
is like the nation's favorite son we
felt so devastated for him when we saw
him as a young boy walking behind his
mother's coffin somebody losing their
mother and then it being you know
projected to the millions on TV screens
it gives me chills thinking about it he
said I kept thinking this is my mother
why are you crying you couldn't have
loved it like I
the country essentially adopted Harry
and William as their own
the fascination now especially with this
generation is we care about her sons and
we want to make sure that they're happy
what we saw after Diana's death is that
the bond between William and Harry
surpassed any brotherly bond I think for
a long time William and Harry maybe felt
like a team outside of the royal family
children of Diana somehow you know
different to everybody else but you
simply cannot underestimate how close
Harry and William became Harry obviously
has been born and bred with a sense of
duty at the same time before we even met
Megan he was talking about the
possibility of not being a prince this
is my bed I don't really make it when
I'm done here which is a joy that's it
made it was in the Army for many years
he did two tours in Afghanistan I signed
up because I wanted to be one of the
lads this is sort of normality for for
me to be amongst these guys was was was
so important he talked about going into
the army and how that gave him a certain
amount of anonymity in some ways that he
was just Harry and then while he was out
on operations in Afghanistan
somebody says where he is and he's
brought home I think that really hurt
him we saw Harry for a number of years
after leaving the army almost taking the
role of official royal gooseberry like
the third wheel with Megan in Wills it
would be Harry popping up in the
background of all sorts of events enter
Megan enter Megan she's already
experienced a life that he wants a slice
of the British are very kind of reticent
to do anything drastic and he kind of
needed this American to come and say no
take what you want in life be the person
you want to be in life
when you have the privilege of meeting
him face to face he doesn't disappoint
he's a life and soul he's the guy he's
the member of the royal family that if
you were gonna have a barbecue or a
dinner party he'd be top of your list of
invites in spite of the place that he
was giving and all of the benefits and
comfort that that life has given him
he's he's one of the most committed and
hardworking people that I know
Senta body is a charity that is very
special to Harry it was set up in memory
of Princess Diana it was named the first
ambassador for the charity helping kids
with HIV my commitment to Santa Valley
comes from an inspiration from the
leader of Santa value which is Prince
Harry Africa is very close to my heart
you see my mother had a very soft spot
for Africa as well
[Music]
sadly over the last couple of years
harry and williams relationship has
gotten worse sometimes the harry William
is his brother and other times he's the
future king and his boss and it's always
hard to sort of differentiate where the
line is when seeing Harry and Megan's
whirlwind romance unfold William put the
brakes on or tried to and said to his
brother look just take your time don't
rush into anything
I don't think Harry ever really got over
that there's been a lot of talk in the
press about riffs with your brother how
much of that is true
we're brothers we'll always be brothers
or something on different paths at the
moment but I will always be there for
him and as I know he'll always be there
for me there's very little that we know
about Williams reaction to this and from
the conversations I've had with aides he
said very little I think as a brother
he's been quite hurt Harry's actions
Harry's decision comes from a very
powerful statement he made last year in
this ITV documentary when he said I will
not play the game that killed my mother
every single time I see a camera every
time I hear a click every single time I
see a flash it takes me straight back
how can he live every day with the job
that he has if that's the reaction that
he's feeling I think Harry still seems
like that guy who was wounded at the age
of 12 when his mother died when I
started my public life 12 years ago I
understood the media might be interested
in what I did I can only imagine what
you may have heard or perhaps read over
the past few weeks but I was not aware
of how overwhelming that attention would
become but the media is a powerful force
in a manner that's been hard to bear I
hope that helps you understand what did
it come to I will be reducing the extent
of the public life I've led so far that
I would step my family back from all I
have ever known to take a step forward
into what I hope can be a more peaceful
life I could see in his eyes and in his
voice that that you know he's on to
something really spectacular there are
definite echoes of Princeton and the
speech that she gave but you would have
thought that rather than repeating this
Harry would have looked at that and seen
that actually didn't work for his mother
outside the protection of the war family
she was much more vulnerable and much
more exposed tragically and
paradoxically it makes his story that
much more compelling if he'd said it's
all behind me people would be paying
attention but because he says it's not
behind him he becomes that much more of
an ongoing story so his honesty is
almost drawing the attention that he
probably doesn't want going forward now
if this decision for Harry to step back
does nothing else I hope that it heals
that breakdown in relationship between
Harry and his brother William because
unless they reconnect unless they can
continue to be mentors for each other
certainly when Prince William eventually
becomes king he'll be a far lesser King
without Harriet as his support
coming up Kari Megan and money who's
going to pay for their security
[Music]
you
the decision that I have made for my
wife and I to step back is not one I
made lightly
the breakaway Royals Megan and harried
Megan has left the UK and now returned
to Canada we are taking a leap of faith
so thank you for giving me the courage
to take this next step do you think they
walked away or were they pushed away
I think they walked away I think they
had enough this is the start of a whole
new adventure for the Sussex says the
Harry and Megan and their ability to
choose to give Archie exactly what kind
of life they want for him Harry and
Megan are living on Vancouver Island
which is in British Columbia the west
coast of Canada they have been staying
there for almost a couple of months now
the couple have been staying in a
beautiful waterside mansion I think
Harry and Megan have already experienced
a breath of fresh air in Canada a place
where they are hugely adored Canadians
are really excited about Harry and Megan
moving to Canada we haven't learned how
to play it cool yet
Megan lived in Toronto during the time
that she was acting on suits I have been
killing it here for the better part of a
decade we're kind here we're polite it's
not gonna be as negative towards them at
the same time I think Canadians would
feel a little bit hurt if Canada was
just being used as a halfway house they
thought they could have a halfway house
but they were told no way you're out the
Queen had to rule decisively taking away
the HRH diapers removing publicly-funded
money making them pay back about 4
million dollars of money that was spent
renovating their house this is not an
easy ride for Megan and Harry but I will
tell you this here's what they will gain
Harry and Megan will make an extremely
insane amount of money that first Megan
and Harry interview is worth millions
and also harry has received a lot of
money from his mother grandmother his
father is still one of the wealthiest
people on this planet so the money's
never in a dry up what I think will
happen is they will use their celebrity
they will use their charm and good looks
and whatever to raise money from people
all over the world I think that human
Megan together from that platform that
they are creating are going to be very
important in in the history of of making
the world a better place
Megan in Harry's decision to step away
from the royal family only enhance their
brand potency they're now famous and
culturally symbolic in a way that no
other Royals have ever really been the
problem that the Queen has is she has to
protect the royal brand and it has
immense prestige there have been huge
conflicts of interests when Royals have
tried to monetize the brand I saw in a
conventional but instead of serving tea
I said oh she's broken apple juice drink
we've had Fergie with some rather
strange commercial adventures
well sure Peter Phillips if piece of
Phillips the grandson of the queen is
allowed to go to China and film a milk
commercial I think Harry and Megan
getting involved in philanthropic
related projects for Netflix or Apple TV
is not going to be a problem I don't
think Prince Harry means he's going to
become a brand ambassador for Rolex
Harry can still raise all the money he
needs for Africa and the Invictus games
Megan can do all the things she wants to
do now on a regular basis she can be
Angelina Jolie a nice version the last
remaining question for Canadians is
who's gonna pay for their security
Canadians are very particular about
taxes and money and where it's going
estimates for Harry and Megan's security
have come in anything from 1.3 million
dollars to 8 million dollars everybody's
talking about will they be able to pay
for their security you're damn right
they'll be able to pay for their
security and they could pay for yours
too
I think that actually Harry and Megan
are going to get into more difficulties
with paparazzi there'll be less of an
organized structure around them every
time they go to an event we saw it and
Perry's mother Diana Princess of Wales
Mira's chased Diana not to get a picture
of Diana they say not to get a picture
of Danna in her current emotional mood
that's what's going to go on with Megan
at every single moment in their lives
whether it's the first major commercial
deal or their next child every single
moment will be tracked the idea that I
somehow stepping back from the royal
family they're gonna somehow regain
control of their privacy is tragically a
fool's errand that's just not going to
happen in fact it's going to get worse
UK photographers have traveled and
camped out in Vancouver Island for weeks
now
so they still will be photographed in
Canada he wants to live a normal life as
normal as his life is going to be right
because when you have a thousand
paparazzi outside your house in Canada
waiting to get one picture of your son
that's not very very normal next a
monarch and her grandson with the
British public welcomed them back I
think the British public will always
welcome Harry back
you
at the end of the day there are lots of
reasons that people care about this
story but one of the main reasons is
because they're worried about the Queen
the Queen
[Music]
this is a human story the Queen is 93
years old her husband Prince Philip is
99 this year he's not been at all well
recently she's had to cope with that
she's had to cope with brexit she's had
to cope with the Prince Andrew and all
those dramas at the end of last year but
don't forget this is a woman with a lot
of experience and I don't think people
should worry too much she has been
through a lot
seeing three of her children grow
through divorce seeing her two grandsons
lose their mother this on a scale of
tragic events and the royal family is
very low down who won in this issue
Harry and Megan or the Queen
I think everyone won and the reason they
all won is that you don't walk away from
any negotiation with everything that
you've won the Queen looks like she
dropped the hammer on them Harry and
Megan have gotten out of a system they
don't want to live in anymore they've
gotten everything they want
to now have spokespeople living in
another Commonwealth country Canada
where the queen is also the queen it's
actually a win for the royal family are
they still consider Royals at this point
Harry was born into the royal family and
in a sense you know that blood tie will
continue ad infinitum
but his royal rank which is his princely
appointment has been put into suspended
animation going forward they don't have
that kind of ethereal everlasting
eternal magic that the royal family
gives you the Queen seemed to intimate
that in about a year's time we will see
how this is all going it's this kind of
a trial separation as it were well I
think there's a view that they will come
back to look at how it's working in a
year's time I think we'll look back in
six months time and realized that not
much has actually changed
they're obviously trying to do the best
for their marriage their best for Archie
for their soul but Harry does love his
family the important thing to remember
is that the queen is a grandmother and
she has so much love for her grandson
and he adores her and that bond will
stay
you